README.md, before:


# EchoTestFutures.py - An echo example using the snapconnect-futures library

## Background


Many SNAP Connect applications tend to follow a format where:
1. Create a callback to collect data from a node
2. Send callback rpc to the node and wait
3. Callback collector triggers a chain of events

Problem: It can be confusing as to what is actually happening, especially if you are
viewing source code that you didn't write.

Solution: Use futures to simulate a more synchronous environment where you can simply
wait for data to be returned.

Many SNAP Connect applications want to gather data from the remote nodes as quickly
as possible.

Here are some naive approaches that DON'T work well.

1) Blindly enqueueing RPC calls

Since the packets have to be transferred "out" via either a serial or TCP/IP link,
blindly enqueueing lots of RPC calls just queues them up INSIDE your PC.

2) Queueing RPC calls based on HOOK_RPC_SENT, but with no regard for incoming replies

If you are sending COMMANDS (no return RPC call), triggering their transmission off
of the HOOK_RPC_SENT event is sufficient. However, if those outbound RPC calls are
going to result in INCOMING RPC calls, you need to give the remote nodes a chance to 
"get a word in edgewise".

## Running EchoTestFutures.py

All configuration for this example is done by changing hardcoded values near the top
of the source file, for example:
 
What is the address of the SNAP Node you want to test against?
    This could be your bridge node if you only want to see the effects of the
    serial interface, or it could be a *remote* SNAP node if you also want to
    include the effects of Over-The-Air (OTA) radio communications too.

What serial interface do you want to use to reach it?
    Or in the remote node case, what serial interface to reach the bridge?

How many test RPC calls do you want to make?
    Using a higher number of RPC calls will "average out" the time taken to 
    perform route lookups to the node. This will make the "per-packet"
    timing more accurate.
    
Once you have edited EchoTestFutures.py for your available hardware, simply do:

`python EchoTestFutures.py`

The specified number of queries will be made, incoming responses will be counted,
and final results displayed. Here is an example:

    Permanent license created on 2012-02-14 14:14:45.343000 for 000020
    100 queries, 100 responses in 6903 milliseconds
    SUCCESS!

For more details, refer to source file EchoTestFutures.py

Commit message:

Updated background and formatting to align with other futures example

README.md, after:

# EchoTestFutures.py - An echo example using the SNAPconnect Futures library

(c) Copyright 2016 Synapse Wireless, Inc.

## Background


Many SNAP Connect applications tend to follow a standard format:

1. A SNAP Node has some kind of valuable data that needs to be collected. 
1. Create a callback method to handle collected/polled data from a node.
1. Send callback rpc to the node and wait for a response.
1. Response triggers the callback method which kicks off subsequent events.
1. Repeat ad infinitum.

Problem: It can be confusing as to what is actually happening, especially if you 
are viewing source code that you didn't write.  Traditional implementations are
very reliant on state-machines since everything has to be event-driven, as well.
In most cases, as soon as you get past the simplest applications the complexity 
of your applications will begin to balloon drastically.  Once you add in other
mechanisms such as retries/timeouts and dropped package handling, it's easy to 
see how even relatively simple applications can become more complex over time.

Solution: Use Futures to simulate a more synchronous environment where you can 
simply wait for data to be returned.  SNAP Connect Futures also has built-in 
retry/timeout mechanisms to help provide more reliable communications with less 
overhead. This lends itself to creating much more straight-forward code which, 
in turn, means faster iteration and easier bug-fixes in the future.


Many SNAP Connect applications want to gather data from the remote nodes as quickly
as possible.

Here are some approaches that DON'T work well.

1) Blindly enqueueing RPC calls

Since the packets have to be transferred "out" via either a serial or TCP/IP link,
blindly enqueueing lots of RPC calls just queues them up INSIDE your PC.

2) Queueing RPC calls based on HOOK_RPC_SENT, but with no regard for incoming replies

If you are sending COMMANDS (no return RPC call), triggering their transmission off
of the HOOK_RPC_SENT event is sufficient. However, if those outbound RPC calls are
going to result in INCOMING RPC calls, you need to give the remote nodes a chance to 
"get a word in edgewise".

## Running EchoTestFutures.py

All configuration for this example is done by changing hardcoded values near the top
of the source file, for example:
 
What is the address of the SNAP Node you want to test against?
    This could be your bridge node if you only want to see the effects of the
    serial interface, or it could be a *remote* SNAP node if you also want to
    include the effects of Over-The-Air (OTA) radio communications too.

What serial interface do you want to use to reach it?
    Or in the remote node case, what serial interface to reach the bridge?

How many test RPC calls do you want to make?
    Using a higher number of RPC calls will "average out" the time taken to 
    perform route lookups to the node. This will make the "per-packet"
    timing more accurate.
    
Once you have edited EchoTestFutures.py for your available hardware, simply do:

`python EchoTestFutures.py`

The specified number of queries will be made, incoming responses will be counted,
and final results displayed. Here is an example:

    Permanent license created on 2012-02-14 14:14:45.343000 for 000020
    100 queries, 100 responses in 6903 milliseconds
    SUCCESS!

For more details, refer to source file EchoTestFutures.py
